It's now time for you all to work on the other rollouts and not just get roots.
For example let's make sure a new place can be added still for the moment only a dummy place which is
then stored in memory basically but better than nothing.
So let's add a post out for that.
Let's go to the places where it's foul and add a new millionaire here with post because I want to filter
for post requests only and the pop should be slashed nothing because the ideas that any request any
post request that targets slash API slash places and which they offer reaches my places roots automatically
reaches this route here.
So just slash nothing is to filter here and then in there.
I need a controller function to which I can point.
So here in places controller let's add a new function.
Create place sounds like a fitting name.
And this will be a default middleware function which gets Request object a response object.
And this next function which we can call and of course I want to export it here so that we can reference
it from a number of file I'll set.
Exports create place equal to create place.
So to a pointer at this function now in places roots we can point at this new function places controller
create place and we're done in this file.
Now in places controller we now need to fill this with some life and now it gets a bit more tricky before
we always had the data we needed in the U R L like here.
The user I.D. which we got from the parents in the U R L now for a post request I expect to have data
in the body of the post request because whilst get requests don't have a request body opposed to requests
do and you do ENCODE data you want to send with a POST request into that post request body.
Now to get data out of the body we can use a package we learned about earlier the body parser.
So we want to add a new middleware and we want to add that before the request reaches to places routes
because the middleware is will be parsed from top to bottom.
So you want to first parse the body and then reached a roots where you need the body.
So here we will add body parser.
And now I want to parse for adjacent data before in the refresher we used you are L encoded data to
be able to work with that form data here.
I need Jason.
This will pass any incoming requests body and extract any Jason data which is in there convert converted
to regular javascript data structures like objects and arrays and then call next automatically so to
be reached the next middleware in line which are our own custom routes and then also add this Jason
data there.
So in the places controller and create place will now be able to get the past body and we get it on
a request body property.
Now here I will use object D structuring which is a default modern javascript feature which no trace
supports to get different properties out of request body and store it in constants which are then available
in the function.
And here I'm interested in the title the description let's say the coordinates.
It's up to us what we expect as data on the incoming request here I expect these fields and the address
as well as the creator.
These are the fields I expect on the incoming request and this object is structuring here really is
just a shortcut for doing this for every property.
So now here we are extracting data from the incoming request for the moment.
We just rely on the fact that all this data will be there later will add validation to make sure it
really is.
But for the moment let's just assume that we always get the right data.
And now I want to create a new place an image created place and all create an object literal here.
We could create a class for a place to use it as a blueprint but sensible replaced is later anyways
with some Mongo D.B. logic.
We can leave it like this as object literal for the moment.
Now in the creative place I want to have a title which I'll map to the value I extracted here into this
title constant and since the name is equal we can use the shortcut.
Same for description coordinates is not the same here I want to have a location key because I have a
location key up there too and that then holds the object with lat and LNG and I expect that coordinates
is such a object with lat and LNG so we'll store coordinates in the location property and then address
will be stored in the address properties so we can use that shortcut again at the same for creator.
Now that created place can be added to our dummy places for example with the push method or with the
on shift method.
If you would want to add it as the first element here I will edit as a last element with push and door
after we can send back a response.
Here I want to set the status code to two hundred and one which is a standard status code you sent back.
If something was successfully created on the server two hundred is your normal success status code.
If you created something new.
The convention is to return two hundred and one and as data I will attach this created place so I will
return that created place here to be precise.
I'll return the object where I have a place property which holds that created place now with that we
got our middleware function we got that connected to this route.
The question is how can we now send their request to it.
Because if I now enter just slash places slash nothing which would be the path that reaches this route
you'll see I actually get an error that does route is not found.
The reason is that if you enter something in the browser you are ell it by default.
Always is a GET request.
Which means it can't work because we have no get route that handles slash nothing.
We just have a post about to send a post request we could now set up some javascript code that sends
it for example by the way if you try that it won't work and I'll show you why later in the course for
the moment I'll use a different tool though I will use postmen.
You can just google for postman and you'll find their official page and postman is simply a tool that
allows you test or send requests to API as you can simply download the app from get postman dot com
and simply walk fruity installer that gives you and install it on your system it's pretty straightforward.
And then once you start this installed application you will see a screen that looks something like this.
You might also have like an overlay at the beginning which asks you what you want to do.
You can simply close stat to be taking to dis interface here.
Now here in postmen you can click this plus here or new request but that is a different form.
You can simply use the plastic which is simpler and in there you can choose the HDP method of the request
you want to send.
In our case post and then the user L which in our case is slash low closed colon 5000 slash API slash
places slash nothing but you can omit dead last slash as well you could then add perms which should
be added as query param.
So with such a question mark at the end which we don't need here authorization which we don't need at
the moment our headers which we also don't need at the moment and a body.
And here on body click raw and then here choose Jason to add Jason data and now valid Jason data looks
like this you add curly braces here and now all the properties we're trying to extract here in our request
or in our middleware from the request body.
And of course named exactly like this because you are trying to extract them by that name so here I
will add a title Wall Street X change I'll add a description double quotes are important here by the
way single quotes won't work description where the money lives creator for now I'll say you two here
we can invent any ideas here because we have no users anyways also D address and I'll again get that
from Google Maps simply searching for Wall Street there for the Wall Street exchange in the end but
you can pick any location you want of course.
So for the New York Stock Exchange to be precise let's also name it New York Stock Exchange addresses
this year and then here we have a coordinates property because I'm trying to extract coordinates here
which in turn needs to have a lat and LNG key in its nested object.
So this is actually a nested object with more curly braces and there we have let and I'll again get
that from Google Maps.
This is a no not between double quotes you can also have numbers here you don't need to have everything
as a string just as you can have a nested object you can all zip a number here and LNG is also taken
directly from Google Maps and has this value.
Now let's click send here and it will send the request to our back end.
And there indeed.
This doesn't look too shabby.
We get back a response and it looks like we created that place.
We can also validate that by sending a request to API slash places slash user you to which is the creator
idea just used and I find the New York Stock Exchange here now important.
This state at the moment only lives in memory.
Whenever we restart does server here by closing it and restarting for example or whenever we change
something in code when it's automatically restarted that data will be lost if I load that same page
again it will not find that place because when we store it here in a javascript array it is only stored
in memory now later of course we'll add a database and stored it in a persistent way for the moment
disk dummy in memory storage will do just so that you don't wonder when it's suddenly lost.
Of course you can always recreate it by sending this request again.
We can also test the GET requests here by the way.
We can also send a GET request from inside postmen to send a GET request to local host five thousand
slash API slash pay places and then for example to place with the IDP one and we'll get the same response
we saw in the browser before and indeed from now on I will use postmen to have all the testing in one
place but forget Roberts who can also stick to the browser if you prefer debt.
Now with that we're able to create a place and we're using postmen to test it.
One thing is missing in our place though and that's an I.D. and for that I want to create a unique idea
which I'll do with an extra third party package so I'll quit this development server and run npm install
dashed Ash safe and then the package name is you you I.D..
This is a package which is capable of generating unique ideas.
Thereafter we can restart this with NPM start.
And now here in the controllers file I will import you will you I.D. by requiring and now data we don't
just require you you I.D. but there are different words and dad simply are different kinds of I.D. it
generates an all use V for which is a unique idea.
That also has a timestamp component in it so here we then call you you idea as a function does generate
such a unique idea and stores it here in that I.D. field with dad if my safe does again and I create
my place again here you see I get back that place and that's the unique I.D. which was generated and
now we can also send a get request to HDP local host 5000 slash places slash this I.D. And as long as
we didn't restart the server in between we should get this.
Of course it should be slash API slash places here.
Now we get this.
So this is now working and we're able to send post requests and also get requests with the help of postman
and also with the help of our unique idea here.